---
layout: post
title:  "Which logbook should I use"
date:   2022-05-07
author: Marcin SP6MI
image: /assets/images/cA4aKEIPQrerBnp1yGHv_IMG_9534-3-2.jpg
---
Where should I log my contacts? which software is best for daily activity, which for contesting, and which for field activation?
Those are the questions that are frequently asked by newly licensed radio operators.
Usually we want to log our contacts – daily contacts – so have some kind of prove that they happened, and of course we can share our latest DX to our friends. And for contesting it's mandatory to log all our activities and send log to organizers. So now we have to decide where we will store history of our QSO's.

Currently most popular option is to use one of available software on a PC, that reads frequency directly from rig and fulfill most of QSO details automatically. But still some of operators still choose paper logbook as their main log.

Below I’ll shortly describe few most popular logging software for PC and Linux, and I’ll show my favorite paper logbook which can be downloaded and printed by anyone.

Lets start form PC software, and because there is so many different possible solutions I’ll show you only few of them, which I tested in the past, and which I’m still using. Not all of them are free (currently), but if you search in the web, then you probably find old free versions.

So which application should I choose for logging casual QSO? I’ve tested 3 different windows applications, first was HamRadio Deluxe (old free version), then UR5EQF and last one which I'm still using is Log4OM.

HRD is really nice piece of software, it has built-in module for digital modes (RTTY, PSK, CW), rotor driver, option to manage QSL cards, and many many other things. Even module to log contests has been added to application by default. For daily usage access to logbook, digi modes and rotor driver is definitely enough. Of course application can detect rig connection settings. The cons of that version is that by default it doesn’t support FT8 (and other modern digital modes). Quick solution for that is add that modulation in application configuration. If you won’t do that you can have errors after importing log which contains such contacts. Newest version of HRD cost less than 100$.

Next great software is UR5EQF, unfortunately author of that application dies some time ago (in 2014), and as far as I know application is not developed anymore, same with support that is provided only by community. Last official version is from July of 2014.

Last one which I used in past, and I’m still using is Log4OM2. Software written by Italian operator IW3HMH and small group of friends. It has very similar functionality to that which is in HRD (maybe except built-in interface for digitial modes).
